content/00_preface/introduction.adoc, before:

[#top-preface-introduction]
= Introduction

ifndef::include-only-once[]
:root-path: ../
:imagesdir: {root-path}/_images
:includedir: {root-path}/_images
include::{root-path}_config.adoc[]
endif::[]

:sectnums!:

== Overview

=== Motivation

Accurate sensor simulation that replicates physical phenomena is essential for evaluating the safety of AD/ADAS (automated driving/automated driving assistance systems) in virtual environments. 

However, previous simulations were limited by computational power and memory, making them visually believable but not physically accurate. 
Consequently, these simulations were mainly used in the early development stages, where precise physical modeling was not necessary.

With increased computing power and improved simulation techniques, virtual testing now plays a crucial role at all stages of system development. 
This aligns with the growing need to accurately represent the real world in simulations, known as digital twins, especially as the demand for physical sensor simulation rises. 
A fundamental step in virtually describing the real world is providing a full physical description of all objects, including their _material properties_ and 3D geometries.

Standardizing the representation of data and attributes, such as scenarios, road data, and asset data, is extremely important for AD/ADAS simulation. This promotes data circulation and ensures consistent results across different systems. 

Standardization efforts have been made for scenarios and road data using ASAM OpenSCENARIO, ASAM OpenDRIVE, ASAM OpenCRG, and other standards. 
{THIS_STANDARD} advances standardization by providing standardized definitions of _material properties_ and 3D geometry.

=== The two main chapters of {THIS_STANDARD}

{THIS_STANDARD} is divided into distinct yet complementary chapters enabling a modular approach to implementation. Key to this is the distinction between material and geometry. Based on specific use cases, users of {THIS_STANDARD} can implement the standard for one or both chapters.  At least one of the two chapters shall be implemented to conform with the standard.

* xref:08_material/introduction.adoc[*Material*]: This chapter includes definitions and file formats for storing and exchanging material properties. These properties can be physical, such as surface roughness, permittivity, and index of refraction, or measured data, like wavelength and angle-dependent reflectance values. Tools or systems focusing on material properties can implement support for the material chapter. For example: “This tool supports {THIS_STANDARD}: Material”.

* xref:07_geometry/introduction.adoc[*Geometry*]: This chapter contains structures for different object classes. These structures define uniform node structure, naming scheme and coordinate systems to enable exchange, common integration and animation of 3D models. Tools or systems working primarily with geometric data, such as 3D models or spatial structures, can implement support for the geometry chapter. For example: “This tool supports {THIS_STANDARD}: Geometry”.

For a full exchange of simulation-ready _3D assets_ however, both chapters must be supported. Systems or tools providing full support for both material and geometric data can be described as follows: “This tool supports {THIS_STANDARD}”.

A list of use cases examples can be found in the xref:06_use_cases/use-cases.adoc[Use Cases] chapter, each highlighting its relevance to the material chapter, the geometry chapter, or both.

=== Structure and file formats

{THIS_STANDARD} defines various file formats for specifying assets, _material properties_, and the mapping between them.
<<fig-openmaterial-overview>> illustrates these file formats and their interconnections.
The definitions of the geometry related data formats marked in red can be found in the geometry chapter.
The definitions of the _material_ related data formats marked in blue can be found in the material chapter.

[#fig-openmaterial-overview]
.Overview of {THIS_STANDARD} file formats and data flow
image::overview.png[,1100]

The first interaction with an {THIS_STANDARD}-compliant _3D model_ is through the asset file.

The *asset file* is a JSON file with the file extension .xoma ({THIS_STANDARD} Asset).
A detailed definition of the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/blob/main/schemas/asset_schema.json[asset file JSON schema] is given in xref:07_geometry/asset-schema.adoc[].
The asset file shall have the same name as a corresponding _3D data file_ in glTF, FBX, or USD format.
To facilitate instancing, multiple asset files may be linked to a single _3D model_ file by adding an index separated by a dot (.) as a suffix to the asset file name.
It contains metadata, such as description, unique identifier, version information, copyright details, and so on.
It also includes a _material_ texture assignment table, allowing dedicated _material_ mapping textures to be assigned to materials within _3D data files_.
This enables comprehensive _material properties_ to be mapped to the geometry at a texture level.
Each texel of this dedicated texture contains a 32 Bit code (8 Bit values in the RGBA channels) which is mapped to a _material property_ file (.xomp) in a separate _material_ mapping file (.xomm), linked in the asset file with a URI.
For the mapping currently only the RGB channels are used (first 24 Bits).
The last channel is reserved for future use.
An https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/example_asset.xoma[example asset] is provided in the examples folder of the repository.

The *_3D data file_* is a standard _3D model_ file in glTF, FBX, or USD format.
Multiple formats can exist in parallel, so one asset file can have multiple _3D data files_ with different formats with the same name as the asset file.
However, to be compliant with {THIS_STANDARD}, a simulation environment must support at least one of the named 3D data formats.
3D data files may contain conventional materials, supporting visual rendering.
These materials are unaffected by {THIS_STANDARD} and may still be used in parallel.
However, the material names given in the 3D data files are used to map _material properties_ in the _material_ mapping file, as described in the next section.
More information about the file formats is given in xref:07_geometry/file-format-support.adoc[].
An https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/example_asset.gltf[example model] is provided in the examples folder of the repository.

The *material mapping file* is separated from the asset file to facilitate reusability.
Multiple assets can link to the same _material_ mapping, allowing simulation systems to have a unified mapping table for all assets. 
A detailed definition of the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/blob/main/schemas/mapping_schema.json[mapping file JSON schema] is given in xref:07_geometry/mapping-schema.adoc[].
It contains metadata, such as description, unique identifier, version information, and the _material_ mapping table.
Each row in this table maps a _material_ name, given in the 3D data file, or an RGB value, given in a dedicated assignment texture, to a _material property_ file (.xomp).
The table also includes a human-readable description of the material.
This setup therefore allows for two mapping possibilities:

* Mapping one _material property_ file per _material_ name in the _3D model_.
* Mapping a color code from a dedicated {THIS_STANDARD} assignment texture to a _material property_ file, enabling detailed differentiation between _material properties_.

An https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/example_mapping.xomm[example mapping file] is provided in the examples folder of the repository.

The *material property file* contains metadata and the properties of one material.
Similar to the mapping file, _material property_ files can also be reused for different assets.
A detailed definition of the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/blob/main/schemas/material_schema.json[material file JSON schema] is given in xref:08_material/material-schema.adoc[].
Some material properties depend on other simulation quantities, such as wavelength of the simulated sensor, temperature, and humidity.
To avoid overloading one material file with large look-up tables, these are placed in auxiliary look-up table files linked with URIs in the main _material property_ file. 
The defined look-up tables include:

* xref:08_material/material-emp-schema.adoc[Electromagnetic properties]
* xref:08_material/material-optical-schema.adoc[Optical properties]
* xref:08_material/material-brdf-schema.adoc[Bidirectional reflectance distribution functions (BRDFs)]
* xref:08_material/material-reflectance-schema.adoc[Reflectance table]

Examples for _material property_ files and look-up table files are provided in the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/[examples folder] of the repository.

== Interaction with other ASAM standards

ASAM OpenX standards strive to provide comprehensive, realistic, and exchangeable simulation data for the development and testing of autonomous systems.
{THIS_STANDARD} asset files and 3D objects defined in the xref:07_geometry/introduction.adoc[Geometry] chapter act as a connecting link between {THIS_STANDARD} and the ASAM OpenX ecosystem.
Specifically, asset files are referenced from other ASAM OpenX standards to integrate and use 3D objects, their metadata and materials:

* ASAM OpenDRIVE standardizes the description of road networks, including geometric definitions of the road, but primarily focuses on the semantic description of the road. 
  The {THIS_STANDARD} geometry object class "Environment" enhances this by allowing the definition of a comprehensive _3D environment_ that aligns with an ASAM OpenDRIVE map.
* ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML is a file format created to describe dynamic content in driving and traffic simulators, with a primary focus on complex maneuvers involving multiple entities like vehicles and pedestrians.
  The {THIS_STANDARD} geometry chapter defines node structures and metadata for these object classes to seamlessly integrate ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML definitions with a _3D model_.
  The asset file (.xoma) of a static _3D environment_ shall be linked in ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML using the https://publications.pages.asam.net/standards/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO_XML/latest/generated/content/RoadNetwork.html[SceneGraphFile property].
  Asset files (.xoma) of individual objects, such as vehicles, shall be linked using the https://publications.pages.asam.net/standards/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO_XML/latest/07_components_scenario/07_02_storyboard_entities.html[model3d property].
  Both environment and objects may either be given as an absolute path or as a path relative to the ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML file (.xosc).
  A relative path is indicated by a dot (.) as the first character.
  The paths to 3D assets specified in the _scenario_ definition shall serve as single source of truth and be used consistently in simulation environments.
  In the case of distributed simulation environments, the paths shall be synchronized between all relevant simulation components.
  Synchronization may be implemented using ASAM Open Simulation Interface (OSI).
* ASAM Open Simulation Interface is a specification for interfaces between models and components in a distributed simulation.
  ASAM OSI primarily focuses on the environmental perception of automated driving functions, but it also covers interfaces for models of traffic participants.
  So called *model_references* in OSI enable enrichment of the object-list based environment representations by referencing 3D objects defined by {THIS_STANDARD}:
  The asset file (.xoma) of a _3D environment_ shall be linked in ASAM OSI using the https://opensimulationinterface.github.io/osi-antora-generator/asamosi/current/gen/structosi3_1_1GroundTruth.html#a83042861723a4a9e890a53aa98d88858[GroundTruth::model_reference].
  Asset files (.xoma) of individual objects, like vehicles, shall be linked with the https://opensimulationinterface.github.io/osi-antora-generator/asamosi/current/gen/structosi3_1_1MovingObject.html#a07558573bee7a5fa2f0729e1cad1325f[MovingObject::model_reference] or the https://opensimulationinterface.github.io/osi-antora-generator/asamosi/current/gen/structosi3_1_1StationaryObject.html#aad1c24fcdb11699954bf3494b8632288[StationaryObject::model_reference].
  References to environments and individual objects may either be given as an absolute path or a relative path.
  A relative path is indicated by a dot (.) as the first character.
  As ASAM OSI transfers the data between tools and simulation models, the root path that a relative model reference path is relative to, has to be given or known to all tools and models in the tool chain.
  This can be done with tool settings, configs, or model parameters, for example, an functional mock-up interface (FMI) parameter.

The transformation of reference frames between these ASAM standards is described in xref:07_geometry/general.adoc#_local_coordinate_system[Geometry - Local coordinate system].

Examples for all interactions are provided in the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/scenario_example[scenario_example folder].

== Conventions and notations

[#sec-modal-verbs]
=== Modal verbs

To ensure compliance with the {THIS_STANDARD} specification, users need to be able to distinguish between requirements, recommendations, permissions, possibilities and capabilities, and external constraints.

The rules listed in <<tab-modal-verbs>> for using modal verbs apply:

[#tab-modal-verbs]
.Verbal forms for expressions of provisions
[%header, cols="20, 15, 65"]
|===
|Provision                  |Verbal form        |Definition
|Requirement                |shall, shall not   |A requirement conveys objectively verifiable criteria to be fulfilled and from which no deviation is permitted if conformance with the document is to be claimed.
|Recommendation             |should, should not |A recommendation conveys a suggested possible choice or course of action deemed to be particularly suitable without necessarily mentioning or excluding others.
|Permission                 |may                |A permission conveys consent or liberty (or opportunity) to do something.
|Possibility and capability |can, cannot        |A possibility conveys expected or conceivable material, physical or causal outcome. +
                                                 A capability conveys the ability, fitness, or quality necessary to do or achieve a specified thing.
|External constraint        |must               |An external constraint or obligation on the user of the document, for example laws of nature or particular conditions existing in some countries or regions, that is not stated as a provision of the document.
                                                 External constraints are not requirements of the document.
                                                 They are given for the information of the user.
|===


=== Typographic conventions

[#tab-typographic-conventions]
.Typographic conventions
[%header, cols=2*]
|===
|Mark-up             |Definition
|`Code elements`     |This format is used for indexes, all data types and patterns, and example file names.
|_Terms_             |This format is used to highlight terms from the "terms and definitions" section.
|===


[#sec-normative-and-informative-content]
=== Normative and informative content

Content in this specification can be normative or informative.
The sections listed in <<tab-normative-informative-content>> are normative or informative per definition.
Further informative content is shown in <<tab-informative-text-components>>.

[#tab-normative-informative-content]
.Normative and informative sections
[%header, cols=2*]
|===
|Section                                      |Indication
|Foreword                                     |Informative
|Introduction                                 |Informative
|Scope                                        |Normative
|Normative references                         |Informative
|Abbreviations                                |Normative
|Backward compatibility                       |Normative
|Terms and definitions                        |Normative
|Use Cases                                    |Informative
|First to last specification-specific section |Normative
|Annexes                                      |Annexes can be normative or informative. The annex heading contains the indication "(normative)" or "(informative)".
|Bibliography                                 |Informative
|===

All other sections in this specification are normative.

[#tab-informative-text-components]
.Informative text components
[%header, cols="30, 70"]
|===
|Text components   |Hints
|Notes             |The document shall be usable without notes.
|Footnotes         |The document shall be usable without footnotes.
|Examples          |The document shall be usable without examples.
|Sequence diagrams |The document shall be usable without sequence diagrams.
|===

Notes, footnotes, and examples shall not contain requirements or any information considered indispensable for the use of the document, for example, instructions or permission.

== Deliverables

The following deliverables are provided for {THIS_STANDARD}:

* https://asam-ev.github.io/OpenMATERIAL-3D/asamopenmaterial/latest/specification/index.html[ASAM OpenMATERIAL® 3D BS 1-0-0 Specification, 2025-MM-DD] (this document, contained in this site)
* https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/schemas[JSON schema files] for all JSON formats (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)
* https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples[Example files] for all defined file formats (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository) and further examples of
** a https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/vehicle_example[vehicle] (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)
** a https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/human_example[human] (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)
** an https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/environment_example[environment] (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)

Commit message:

Explain material assignment in more detail
Signed-off-by: ClemensLinnhoff <clemens.linnhoff@persival.de>

content/00_preface/introduction.adoc, after:

[#top-preface-introduction]
= Introduction

ifndef::include-only-once[]
:root-path: ../
:imagesdir: {root-path}/_images
:includedir: {root-path}/_images
include::{root-path}_config.adoc[]
endif::[]

:sectnums!:

== Overview

=== Motivation

Accurate sensor simulation that replicates physical phenomena is essential for evaluating the safety of AD/ADAS (automated driving/automated driving assistance systems) in virtual environments. 

However, previous simulations were limited by computational power and memory, making them visually believable but not physically accurate. 
Consequently, these simulations were mainly used in the early development stages, where precise physical modeling was not necessary.

With increased computing power and improved simulation techniques, virtual testing now plays a crucial role at all stages of system development. 
This aligns with the growing need to accurately represent the real world in simulations, known as digital twins, especially as the demand for physical sensor simulation rises. 
A fundamental step in virtually describing the real world is providing a full physical description of all objects, including their _material properties_ and 3D geometries.

Standardizing the representation of data and attributes, such as scenarios, road data, and asset data, is extremely important for AD/ADAS simulation. This promotes data circulation and ensures consistent results across different systems. 

Standardization efforts have been made for scenarios and road data using ASAM OpenSCENARIO, ASAM OpenDRIVE, ASAM OpenCRG, and other standards. 
{THIS_STANDARD} advances standardization by providing standardized definitions of _material properties_ and 3D geometry.

=== The two main chapters of {THIS_STANDARD}

{THIS_STANDARD} is divided into distinct yet complementary chapters enabling a modular approach to implementation. Key to this is the distinction between material and geometry. Based on specific use cases, users of {THIS_STANDARD} can implement the standard for one or both chapters.  At least one of the two chapters shall be implemented to conform with the standard.

* xref:08_material/introduction.adoc[*Material*]: This chapter includes definitions and file formats for storing and exchanging material properties. These properties can be physical, such as surface roughness, permittivity, and index of refraction, or measured data, like wavelength and angle-dependent reflectance values. Tools or systems focusing on material properties can implement support for the material chapter. For example: “This tool supports {THIS_STANDARD}: Material”.

* xref:07_geometry/introduction.adoc[*Geometry*]: This chapter contains structures for different object classes. These structures define uniform node structure, naming scheme and coordinate systems to enable exchange, common integration and animation of 3D models. Tools or systems working primarily with geometric data, such as 3D models or spatial structures, can implement support for the geometry chapter. For example: “This tool supports {THIS_STANDARD}: Geometry”.

For a full exchange of simulation-ready _3D assets_ however, both chapters must be supported. Systems or tools providing full support for both material and geometric data can be described as follows: “This tool supports {THIS_STANDARD}”.

A list of use cases examples can be found in the xref:06_use_cases/use-cases.adoc[Use Cases] chapter, each highlighting its relevance to the material chapter, the geometry chapter, or both.

=== Structure and file formats

{THIS_STANDARD} defines various file formats for specifying assets, _material properties_, and the mapping between them.
<<fig-openmaterial-overview>> illustrates these file formats and their interconnections.
The definitions of the geometry related data formats marked in red can be found in the geometry chapter.
The definitions of the _material_ related data formats marked in blue can be found in the material chapter.

[#fig-openmaterial-overview]
.Overview of {THIS_STANDARD} file formats and data flow
image::overview.png[,1100]

The first interaction with an {THIS_STANDARD}-compliant _3D model_ is through the asset file.

The *asset file* is a JSON file with the file extension .xoma ({THIS_STANDARD} Asset).
A detailed definition of the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/blob/main/schemas/asset_schema.json[asset file JSON schema] is given in xref:07_geometry/asset-schema.adoc[].
The asset file shall have the same name as a corresponding _3D data file_ in glTF, FBX, or USD format.
To facilitate instancing, multiple asset files may be linked to a single _3D model_ file by adding an index separated by a dot (.) as a suffix to the asset file name.
It contains metadata, such as description, unique identifier, version information, copyright details, and so on.
It also includes a _material_ texture assignment table, allowing dedicated _material_ mapping textures to be assigned to materials within _3D data files_.
This enables comprehensive _material properties_ to be mapped to the geometry at a texture level.
Each texel of this dedicated texture contains a 32 Bit code (8 Bit values in the RGBA channels) which is mapped to a _material property_ file (.xomp) in a separate _material_ mapping file (.xomm), linked in the asset file with a URI.
For the mapping currently only the RGB channels are used (first 24 Bits).
The last channel is reserved for future use.
An https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/example_asset.xoma[example asset] is provided in the examples folder of the repository.

The *_3D data file_* is a standard _3D model_ file in glTF, FBX, or USD format.
Multiple formats can exist in parallel, so one asset file can have multiple _3D data files_ with different formats with the same name as the asset file.
However, to be compliant with {THIS_STANDARD}, a simulation environment must support at least one of the named 3D data formats.
3D data files may contain conventional materials, supporting visual rendering.
These materials are unaffected by {THIS_STANDARD} and may still be used in parallel.
In the overview image above, the 3D Data File has the exemplary materials "asphalt", "concrete" and "texture".
The "texture" material has the visual texture of a stop sign.
All these materials are purely visual materials embedded in the 3D data file.
They may be used by conventional rendering systems.
However, the material names given in the 3D data files are used to map _material properties_ in the _material_ mapping file, as described in the next section.
More information about the file formats is given in xref:07_geometry/file-format-support.adoc[].
An https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/example_asset.gltf[example model] is provided in the examples folder of the repository.

The *material mapping file* is separated from the asset file to facilitate reusability.
Multiple assets can link to the same _material_ mapping, allowing simulation systems to have a unified mapping table for all assets. 
A detailed definition of the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/blob/main/schemas/mapping_schema.json[mapping file JSON schema] is given in xref:07_geometry/mapping-schema.adoc[].
It contains metadata, such as description, unique identifier, version information, and the _material_ mapping table.
Each row in this table maps a _material_ name, given in the 3D data file, or an RGB value, given in a dedicated assignment texture, to a _material property_ file (.xomp).
The table also includes a human-readable description of the material.
This setup therefore allows for two mapping possibilities:

* Mapping one _material property_ file per _material_ name in the _3D model_.
  In the overview image above, the material "asphalt" may for example be mapped to a _material property_ file "aphalt.xomp".
* Mapping a color code from a dedicated {THIS_STANDARD} assignment texture to a _material property_ file, enabling detailed differentiation between _material properties_.
  In the overview image above, the material "texture" belonging to the "Road sign" has a visual texture of a stop sign.
  The asset file of the 3D asset allows to define dedicated assignment textures for each material.
  They use the same uv-map as the visual texture.
  The RGB values of the texels in the assignment texture can be mapped to _material property_ files.
  In the overview image, the RGB value (0, 0, 255) is mapped to the _material property_ file "steel_red.xomp" and (0, 255, 0) is mapped to "steel_white.xomp".
  The RGB values are assignment codes, so they are completely separate from the visual representation.

An https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/example_mapping.xomm[example mapping file] is provided in the examples folder of the repository.

The *material property file* contains metadata and the properties of one material.
Similar to the mapping file, _material property_ files can also be reused for different assets.
A detailed definition of the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/blob/main/schemas/material_schema.json[material file JSON schema] is given in xref:08_material/material-schema.adoc[].
Some material properties depend on other simulation quantities, such as wavelength of the simulated sensor, temperature, and humidity.
To avoid overloading one material file with large look-up tables, these are placed in auxiliary look-up table files linked with URIs in the main _material property_ file. 
The defined look-up tables include:

* xref:08_material/material-emp-schema.adoc[Electromagnetic properties]
* xref:08_material/material-optical-schema.adoc[Optical properties]
* xref:08_material/material-brdf-schema.adoc[Bidirectional reflectance distribution functions (BRDFs)]
* xref:08_material/material-reflectance-schema.adoc[Reflectance table]

Examples for _material property_ files and look-up table files are provided in the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/[examples folder] of the repository.

== Interaction with other ASAM standards

ASAM OpenX standards strive to provide comprehensive, realistic, and exchangeable simulation data for the development and testing of autonomous systems.
{THIS_STANDARD} asset files and 3D objects defined in the xref:07_geometry/introduction.adoc[Geometry] chapter act as a connecting link between {THIS_STANDARD} and the ASAM OpenX ecosystem.
Specifically, asset files are referenced from other ASAM OpenX standards to integrate and use 3D objects, their metadata and materials:

* ASAM OpenDRIVE standardizes the description of road networks, including geometric definitions of the road, but primarily focuses on the semantic description of the road. 
  The {THIS_STANDARD} geometry object class "Environment" enhances this by allowing the definition of a comprehensive _3D environment_ that aligns with an ASAM OpenDRIVE map.
* ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML is a file format created to describe dynamic content in driving and traffic simulators, with a primary focus on complex maneuvers involving multiple entities like vehicles and pedestrians.
  The {THIS_STANDARD} geometry chapter defines node structures and metadata for these object classes to seamlessly integrate ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML definitions with a _3D model_.
  The asset file (.xoma) of a static _3D environment_ shall be linked in ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML using the https://publications.pages.asam.net/standards/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO_XML/latest/generated/content/RoadNetwork.html[SceneGraphFile property].
  Asset files (.xoma) of individual objects, such as vehicles, shall be linked using the https://publications.pages.asam.net/standards/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO/ASAM_OpenSCENARIO_XML/latest/07_components_scenario/07_02_storyboard_entities.html[model3d property].
  Both environment and objects may either be given as an absolute path or as a path relative to the ASAM OpenSCENARIO XML file (.xosc).
  A relative path is indicated by a dot (.) as the first character.
  The paths to 3D assets specified in the _scenario_ definition shall serve as single source of truth and be used consistently in simulation environments.
  In the case of distributed simulation environments, the paths shall be synchronized between all relevant simulation components.
  Synchronization may be implemented using ASAM Open Simulation Interface (OSI).
* ASAM Open Simulation Interface is a specification for interfaces between models and components in a distributed simulation.
  ASAM OSI primarily focuses on the environmental perception of automated driving functions, but it also covers interfaces for models of traffic participants.
  So called *model_references* in OSI enable enrichment of the object-list based environment representations by referencing 3D objects defined by {THIS_STANDARD}:
  The asset file (.xoma) of a _3D environment_ shall be linked in ASAM OSI using the https://opensimulationinterface.github.io/osi-antora-generator/asamosi/current/gen/structosi3_1_1GroundTruth.html#a83042861723a4a9e890a53aa98d88858[GroundTruth::model_reference].
  Asset files (.xoma) of individual objects, like vehicles, shall be linked with the https://opensimulationinterface.github.io/osi-antora-generator/asamosi/current/gen/structosi3_1_1MovingObject.html#a07558573bee7a5fa2f0729e1cad1325f[MovingObject::model_reference] or the https://opensimulationinterface.github.io/osi-antora-generator/asamosi/current/gen/structosi3_1_1StationaryObject.html#aad1c24fcdb11699954bf3494b8632288[StationaryObject::model_reference].
  References to environments and individual objects may either be given as an absolute path or a relative path.
  A relative path is indicated by a dot (.) as the first character.
  As ASAM OSI transfers the data between tools and simulation models, the root path that a relative model reference path is relative to, has to be given or known to all tools and models in the tool chain.
  This can be done with tool settings, configs, or model parameters, for example, an functional mock-up interface (FMI) parameter.

The transformation of reference frames between these ASAM standards is described in xref:07_geometry/general.adoc#_local_coordinate_system[Geometry - Local coordinate system].

Examples for all interactions are provided in the https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/scenario_example[scenario_example folder].

== Conventions and notations

[#sec-modal-verbs]
=== Modal verbs

To ensure compliance with the {THIS_STANDARD} specification, users need to be able to distinguish between requirements, recommendations, permissions, possibilities and capabilities, and external constraints.

The rules listed in <<tab-modal-verbs>> for using modal verbs apply:

[#tab-modal-verbs]
.Verbal forms for expressions of provisions
[%header, cols="20, 15, 65"]
|===
|Provision                  |Verbal form        |Definition
|Requirement                |shall, shall not   |A requirement conveys objectively verifiable criteria to be fulfilled and from which no deviation is permitted if conformance with the document is to be claimed.
|Recommendation             |should, should not |A recommendation conveys a suggested possible choice or course of action deemed to be particularly suitable without necessarily mentioning or excluding others.
|Permission                 |may                |A permission conveys consent or liberty (or opportunity) to do something.
|Possibility and capability |can, cannot        |A possibility conveys expected or conceivable material, physical or causal outcome. +
                                                 A capability conveys the ability, fitness, or quality necessary to do or achieve a specified thing.
|External constraint        |must               |An external constraint or obligation on the user of the document, for example laws of nature or particular conditions existing in some countries or regions, that is not stated as a provision of the document.
                                                 External constraints are not requirements of the document.
                                                 They are given for the information of the user.
|===


=== Typographic conventions

[#tab-typographic-conventions]
.Typographic conventions
[%header, cols=2*]
|===
|Mark-up             |Definition
|`Code elements`     |This format is used for indexes, all data types and patterns, and example file names.
|_Terms_             |This format is used to highlight terms from the "terms and definitions" section.
|===


[#sec-normative-and-informative-content]
=== Normative and informative content

Content in this specification can be normative or informative.
The sections listed in <<tab-normative-informative-content>> are normative or informative per definition.
Further informative content is shown in <<tab-informative-text-components>>.

[#tab-normative-informative-content]
.Normative and informative sections
[%header, cols=2*]
|===
|Section                                      |Indication
|Foreword                                     |Informative
|Introduction                                 |Informative
|Scope                                        |Normative
|Normative references                         |Informative
|Abbreviations                                |Normative
|Backward compatibility                       |Normative
|Terms and definitions                        |Normative
|Use Cases                                    |Informative
|First to last specification-specific section |Normative
|Annexes                                      |Annexes can be normative or informative. The annex heading contains the indication "(normative)" or "(informative)".
|Bibliography                                 |Informative
|===

All other sections in this specification are normative.

[#tab-informative-text-components]
.Informative text components
[%header, cols="30, 70"]
|===
|Text components   |Hints
|Notes             |The document shall be usable without notes.
|Footnotes         |The document shall be usable without footnotes.
|Examples          |The document shall be usable without examples.
|Sequence diagrams |The document shall be usable without sequence diagrams.
|===

Notes, footnotes, and examples shall not contain requirements or any information considered indispensable for the use of the document, for example, instructions or permission.

== Deliverables

The following deliverables are provided for {THIS_STANDARD}:

* https://asam-ev.github.io/OpenMATERIAL-3D/asamopenmaterial/latest/specification/index.html[ASAM OpenMATERIAL® 3D BS 1-0-0 Specification, 2025-MM-DD] (this document, contained in this site)
* https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/schemas[JSON schema files] for all JSON formats (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)
* https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples[Example files] for all defined file formats (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository) and further examples of
** a https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/vehicle_example[vehicle] (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)
** a https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/human_example[human] (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)
** an https://github.com/asam-ev/OpenMATERIAL-3D/tree/main/examples/environment_example[environment] (contained in the {THIS_STANDARD} Github repository)
