content/09_annexes/checker-rules.adoc, before:

:sectnums!:

= Annex A: Checker rules (normative)

== Concept

Checker rules are semantic and syntactic requirements that shall be applied to both parts of {THIS_STANDARD} (material and geometry).
{THIS_STANDARD} defines a basic set of rules that apply to the entire standard, as well as specific rules for the two parts of {THIS_STANDARD}.
Rules consist of a name, a UID (a unique identifier of the rule), and a description that specifies the requirements.

The UID is a string that encapsulates a sequence of concepts that identify  a rule across different domains.
The concepts are ordered and separated by the separation character `:`.

The concepts for a rule UID are:

* *Emanating entity*: A domain name for the entity (organization or company) that declares the rule UID. For {THIS_STANDARD}, it is `asam.net`.
* *Standard*: A short string that represents the standard or the domain to which the rule is applied. For {THIS_STANDARD}, there are three different standard strings:
** `xom`: General rules applicable for both parts or not categorizable because they are in-between.
** `xom-geo`: Rules that only apply to the geometry part of {THIS_STANDARD}.
** `xom-mat`: Rules that only apply to the material part of {THIS_STANDARD}.
* *Definition setting*: The version of the standard or the domain to which the rule appears or is applied for the first time, for example, `1.0.0`.
* *Rule full name*: The full name of the rule, as dot-separated, snake_lower_case string. The full name of a rule is composed of the rule set and the rule name, a unique string inside the categorization. The rule set can be nested, meaning that it can be defined as an arbitrary sequence of dot-separated names. The name is the snake_case string after the last dot of the full name.

The following is a visual description of a rule UID:

[source]
----
<emanating-entity>:<standard>:x.y.z:rule_set.rule_name
----

NOTE: Third party rule UID creators (that is, emanating entities different from ASAM) should still fill all the concepts above. If that is not possible, concepts shall be left blank. Separation by `:` is still required (for example, `example.com:::rulename` is valid).

UIDs are designed to be queried, for example, implementations may use UNIX pattern matching.

TIP: Read the https://github.com/asam-ev/qc-framework[ASAM Quality Checker Framework] documentation to see detailed information on how and which checks are implemented.

== A.1 General rules

=== A.1.1 General

==== valid_json_document

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:general.valid_json_document

Description:: {THIS_STANDARD} files with the file extensions .xoma, .xomm, .xomp, or .xompt shall be valid JSON documents.

==== valid_schema

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:general.valid_schema

Description:: {THIS_STANDARD} files with the file extensions .xoma, .xomm, .xomp, or .xompt shall be valid according to their corresponding JSON schema.

==== uris_exist

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:general.uris_exist

Description:: If a URI property to other file is set in a JSON file, the file linked in that property shall exist.

=== A.1.2 XOMA

==== material_textures_exist

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:xoma.material_textures_exist

Description:: Textures mapped to material names in the 'materialTextureAssignment' field of .xoma files shall exist.

== A.2 Geometry

=== A.2.1 XOMA

==== vehicle_class_data_defined

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.vehicle_class_data_defined

Description:: If an asset is of type 'vehicle', the property 'vehicleClassData' must be set in the metadata.

==== human_class_data_defined

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.human_class_data_defined

Description:: If an asset is of type 'human', the property 'humanClassData' must be set in the metadata.

==== texture_assignment_requires_mapping

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.texture_assignment_requires_mapping

Description:: If the property 'materialTextureAssignment' is set, 'materialMappingUri' must also be set.

==== all_texture_rgba_codes_defined

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.all_texture_rgba_codes_defined

Description:: If the property 'materialTextureAssignment' is set, all color codes of all referenced textures shall be covered by the material mapping table referenced in 'materialMappingUri'.

== A.2 Material

=== A.2.1 XOMP

==== look_up_tables_unique_wavelengths

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.look_up_tables_unique_wavelengths

Description:: Look-up tables referenced in a .xomp file should not have overlapping wavelength ranges. (Warning level)

==== surface_height_rms_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.surface_height_rms_valid_range

Description:: The surface height root mean square in meters (m) shall not be below 0.

==== surface_correlation_length_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.surface_correlation_length_valid_range

Description:: The surface correlation length in meters (m) shall not be below 0.

==== emissivity_coefficient_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.emissivity_coefficient_valid_range

Description:: The emissivity coefficient shall be within the range of 0 to 1.

==== temperature_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.temperature_valid_range

Description:: A temperature in Kelvin (K) shall not be below 0.

==== youngs_modulus_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.youngs_modulus_valid_range

Description:: The Young's modulus in Pascal (Pa) shall be within the range of 0 to 1.5e12 (Young's modulus of a diamond).

==== poissons_ratio_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.poissons_ratio_valid_range

Description:: The Poisson's ratio shall be within the range of -1 to 0.5 (from extreme auxetic to perfectly incompressible).

==== density_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.density_valid_range

Description:: The density in kilogram per cubic metre (kg m^-3^) shall be within the range of 0 to 25 (density of Osmium).

==== retroreflection_coefficient_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.retroreflection_coefficient_valid_range

Description:: The coefficient of retro-reflection in candelas per lux per square metre (cd lx^-1^ m^-2^) shall be within the range of 0 to 5000.

=== A.2.2 XOMPT

==== tables_sorted_correctly

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.tables_sorted_correctly

Description:: Arrays in look-up tables shall be sorted based on the columns starting with the first.

==== wavelength_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.wavelength_valid_range

Description:: The wavelength in meters (m) shall be within the range of 1e-09 to 17.16e-03 . The upper limit corresponds to 20 kHz.

==== temperature_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.temperature_valid_range

Description:: A temperature in Kelvin (K) shall not be below 0.

==== real_part_ior_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.real_part_ior_valid_range

Description:: The real part of index of refraction (refractive index n) shall not be below 0.

==== imaginary_part_ior_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.imaginary_part_ior_valid_range

Description:: The imaginary part of index (extinction coefficient k) of refraction shall not be below 0 (= perfect transparent material).

==== humidity_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.humidity_valid_range

Description:: The humidity in percent (%) shall be within the range of 0 to 100.

==== real_part_permeability_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.real_part_permeability_valid_range

Description:: The real part of permeability shall be within the range of 1.256637e-06 to 1.256637 (µ~0~ to µ~0~ x 10e06).

==== imaginary_part_permeability_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.real_part_permeability_valid_range

Description:: The imaginary part of permeability shall not be below 0.

==== imaginary_part_permittivity_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.imaginary_part_permitivity_valid_range

Description:: The imaginary part of permittivity shall not be below 0.

==== incident_elevation_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.incident_elevation_angle_valid_range

Description:: The incident elevation angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of -1.570796 to +1.570796.

==== exit_elevation_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.exit_elevation_angle_valid_range

Description:: The exit elevation angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of -1.570796 to +1.570796.

==== exit_azimuth_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.exit_azimuth_angle_valid_range

Description:: The exit azimuth angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of 0 to 6.283185.

==== BRDF_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.BRDF_valid_range

Description:: The _BRDF_ in steradians^-1^ (sr^-1^) shall not be below 0.

==== polarized_plane_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.polarized_plane_angle_valid_range

Description:: The polarized plane angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of 0 to 3.141592.

==== amplitude_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.amplitude_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

Description:: The amplitude within the linearly polarized plane shall be within the range of 0 to 1.

==== phase_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.phase_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

Description:: The phase within the linearly polarized plane in radians (rad) shall be within the range of -3.141592 to +3.141592 OR 'null'.

Commit message:

Add relative to permittivity and permeability in the checker rules
Signed-off-by: DavidJRitter904 <david.ritter@v2c2.at>

content/09_annexes/checker-rules.adoc, after:

:sectnums!:

= Annex A: Checker rules (normative)

== Concept

Checker rules are semantic and syntactic requirements that shall be applied to both parts of {THIS_STANDARD} (material and geometry).
{THIS_STANDARD} defines a basic set of rules that apply to the entire standard, as well as specific rules for the two parts of {THIS_STANDARD}.
Rules consist of a name, a UID (a unique identifier of the rule), and a description that specifies the requirements.

The UID is a string that encapsulates a sequence of concepts that identify  a rule across different domains.
The concepts are ordered and separated by the separation character `:`.

The concepts for a rule UID are:

* *Emanating entity*: A domain name for the entity (organization or company) that declares the rule UID. For {THIS_STANDARD}, it is `asam.net`.
* *Standard*: A short string that represents the standard or the domain to which the rule is applied. For {THIS_STANDARD}, there are three different standard strings:
** `xom`: General rules applicable for both parts or not categorizable because they are in-between.
** `xom-geo`: Rules that only apply to the geometry part of {THIS_STANDARD}.
** `xom-mat`: Rules that only apply to the material part of {THIS_STANDARD}.
* *Definition setting*: The version of the standard or the domain to which the rule appears or is applied for the first time, for example, `1.0.0`.
* *Rule full name*: The full name of the rule, as dot-separated, snake_lower_case string. The full name of a rule is composed of the rule set and the rule name, a unique string inside the categorization. The rule set can be nested, meaning that it can be defined as an arbitrary sequence of dot-separated names. The name is the snake_case string after the last dot of the full name.

The following is a visual description of a rule UID:

[source]
----
<emanating-entity>:<standard>:x.y.z:rule_set.rule_name
----

NOTE: Third party rule UID creators (that is, emanating entities different from ASAM) should still fill all the concepts above. If that is not possible, concepts shall be left blank. Separation by `:` is still required (for example, `example.com:::rulename` is valid).

UIDs are designed to be queried, for example, implementations may use UNIX pattern matching.

TIP: Read the https://github.com/asam-ev/qc-framework[ASAM Quality Checker Framework] documentation to see detailed information on how and which checks are implemented.

== A.1 General rules

=== A.1.1 General

==== valid_json_document

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:general.valid_json_document

Description:: {THIS_STANDARD} files with the file extensions .xoma, .xomm, .xomp, or .xompt shall be valid JSON documents.

==== valid_schema

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:general.valid_schema

Description:: {THIS_STANDARD} files with the file extensions .xoma, .xomm, .xomp, or .xompt shall be valid according to their corresponding JSON schema.

==== uris_exist

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:general.uris_exist

Description:: If a URI property to other file is set in a JSON file, the file linked in that property shall exist.

=== A.1.2 XOMA

==== material_textures_exist

UID:: asam.net:xom:1.0.0:xoma.material_textures_exist

Description:: Textures mapped to material names in the 'materialTextureAssignment' field of .xoma files shall exist.

== A.2 Geometry

=== A.2.1 XOMA

==== vehicle_class_data_defined

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.vehicle_class_data_defined

Description:: If an asset is of type 'vehicle', the property 'vehicleClassData' must be set in the metadata.

==== human_class_data_defined

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.human_class_data_defined

Description:: If an asset is of type 'human', the property 'humanClassData' must be set in the metadata.

==== texture_assignment_requires_mapping

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.texture_assignment_requires_mapping

Description:: If the property 'materialTextureAssignment' is set, 'materialMappingUri' must also be set.

==== all_texture_rgba_codes_defined

UID:: asam.net:xom-geo:1.0.0:xoma.all_texture_rgba_codes_defined

Description:: If the property 'materialTextureAssignment' is set, all color codes of all referenced textures shall be covered by the material mapping table referenced in 'materialMappingUri'.

== A.2 Material

=== A.2.1 XOMP

==== look_up_tables_unique_wavelengths

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.look_up_tables_unique_wavelengths

Description:: Look-up tables referenced in a .xomp file should not have overlapping wavelength ranges. (Warning level)

==== surface_height_rms_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.surface_height_rms_valid_range

Description:: The surface height root mean square in meters (m) shall not be below 0.

==== surface_correlation_length_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.surface_correlation_length_valid_range

Description:: The surface correlation length in meters (m) shall not be below 0.

==== emissivity_coefficient_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.emissivity_coefficient_valid_range

Description:: The emissivity coefficient shall be within the range of 0 to 1.

==== temperature_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.temperature_valid_range

Description:: A temperature in Kelvin (K) shall not be below 0.

==== youngs_modulus_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.youngs_modulus_valid_range

Description:: The Young's modulus in Pascal (Pa) shall be within the range of 0 to 1.5e12 (Young's modulus of a diamond).

==== poissons_ratio_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.poissons_ratio_valid_range

Description:: The Poisson's ratio shall be within the range of -1 to 0.5 (from extreme auxetic to perfectly incompressible).

==== density_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.density_valid_range

Description:: The density in kilogram per cubic metre (kg m^-3^) shall be within the range of 0 to 25 (density of Osmium).

==== retroreflection_coefficient_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xomp.retroreflection_coefficient_valid_range

Description:: The coefficient of retro-reflection in candelas per lux per square metre (cd lx^-1^ m^-2^) shall be within the range of 0 to 5000.

=== A.2.2 XOMPT

==== tables_sorted_correctly

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.tables_sorted_correctly

Description:: Arrays in look-up tables shall be sorted based on the columns starting with the first.

==== wavelength_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.wavelength_valid_range

Description:: The wavelength in meters (m) shall be within the range of 1e-09 to 17.16e-03 . The upper limit corresponds to 20 kHz.

==== temperature_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.temperature_valid_range

Description:: A temperature in Kelvin (K) shall not be below 0.

==== real_part_ior_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.real_part_ior_valid_range

Description:: The real part of index of refraction (refractive index n) shall not be below 0.

==== imaginary_part_ior_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.imaginary_part_ior_valid_range

Description:: The imaginary part of index (extinction coefficient k) of refraction shall not be below 0 (= perfect transparent material).

==== humidity_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.humidity_valid_range

Description:: The humidity in percent (%) shall be within the range of 0 to 100.

==== real_part_relative_permeability_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.real_part_relative_permeability_valid_range

Description:: The real part of relative permeability shall be within the range of 1.256637e-06 to 1.256637 (µ~0~ to µ~0~ x 10e06).

==== imaginary_part_relative_permeability_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.real_part_relative_permeability_valid_range

Description:: The imaginary part of relative permeability shall not be below 0.

==== imaginary_part_relative_permittivity_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.imaginary_part_relative_permitivity_valid_range

Description:: The imaginary part of relative permittivity shall not be below 0.

==== incident_elevation_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.incident_elevation_angle_valid_range

Description:: The incident elevation angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of -1.570796 to +1.570796.

==== exit_elevation_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.exit_elevation_angle_valid_range

Description:: The exit elevation angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of -1.570796 to +1.570796.

==== exit_azimuth_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.exit_azimuth_angle_valid_range

Description:: The exit azimuth angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of 0 to 6.283185.

==== BRDF_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.BRDF_valid_range

Description:: The _BRDF_ in steradians^-1^ (sr^-1^) shall not be below 0.

==== polarized_plane_angle_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.polarized_plane_angle_valid_range

Description:: The polarized plane angle in radians (rad) shall be within the range of 0 to 3.141592.

==== amplitude_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.amplitude_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

Description:: The amplitude within the linearly polarized plane shall be within the range of 0 to 1.

==== phase_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

UID:: asam.net:xom-mat:1.0.0:xompt.phase_linear_polarized_plane_valid_range

Description:: The phase within the linearly polarized plane in radians (rad) shall be within the range of -3.141592 to +3.141592 OR 'null'.
